XXX Integrate information from Ken Carpenter's email.

Date: Apr 7, 2022, 6:29 PM
From: Kenneth Carpenter <kenneth.carpenter-1@colorado.edu>
To: Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: Concrete Diplodocus

Hi Mike,
First thing, sorry I was an ass a few years back.
Second, yes, I am retired. I retired at age 70 during the pandemic in 2020.
Third, about the concrete dinosaur: Shortly after the original Vernal Field Museum was opened, "Pop" Kay, who was a curator at the Carnegie Museum and who got his start working for Earl Douglass at DNM, offered the Field Museum the plaster of Paris molds of D. carnegii so they would have a dinosaur skeleton for exhibit (Kay often visited Vernal since he still had family there). When the molds arrived, they were in pretty bad shape having been used to make all those plaster skeletons of Dippy. It is not clear who made the suggestion for a concrete Dippy. An article on the casting and mounting was published (attached). The Field Museum posted a notice in the SVP news bulletin offered the plaster molds to who ever wanted, but I have no idea who took them. Regardless, at this point they disappeared. Fast forward to the 1990s: Jim Madsen convinced Steve Stroka to allow him to dismantle the Diplodocus to mold and cast. Jim would then have a new skeleton to sell. In return, the Field Museum would get a plastic cast for display, which is the cast in the lobby of the new museum. When the dismantled concrete specimen was returned, it was in bad shape and went into storage. Meanwhile, the museum moved to a newer building, but the original cast was left behind. When the city decided to tear down the old museum, Steve contacted me if we would take it since it was state property so had to go to a state repository. It sat in my garage for several years, during which time we got a state museum grant to restore it. I still have no idea how some of the damage occurred on some of the larger, robust casts. The plan was to remount it for display outside a new museum in Price, which was in the planning and fund-raising stage. However, everything got torpedoed by the main USU campus: I was forbidden to fund raise on my own in state and the land that had been donated for a museum was returned to the donor without my knowledge; I found out a year after the fact. At this point, the chancellor and I kicked around the idea of mounting the skeleton on campus as a way of fund raising. However, after giving the matter much thought, I decided against it since mounting and later dismantling to move to a new museum would damage the cast. So it currently sits in storage waiting for a new museum building where it can be displayed outdoors.

Let me know if you have further questions.

Ken

Kenneth Carpenter, Ph.D.
Adjoint Curator
University of Colorado Museum
Boulder, CO 80309
(publications: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Kenneth_Carpenter3)

