Date: Mar 8, 2022, 5:10 PM
From: Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com>
To: Lynton@lyntongardiner.com
Subject: AMNH Barosaurus Mount

Dear Lynton Gardiner,

Peter May tells me that you were the photographer for the AMNH's 1991 mounting of the rearing Barosaurus. It must have been an unusual challenge light and shoot!

Peter and I are currently working, with Lowell Dingus and Gene Gaffney, on a scholarly account of the mounted skeleton and the process of erecting it. We would be interested in any recollections you have of your part in it (and any photos that you still have).

Thanks,

Dr. Michael P. Taylor
Department of Earth Sciences
University of Bristol
Bristol BS8 1RJ
ENGLAND
dino@miketaylor.org.uk
http://svpow.com/
@MikeTaylor
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-1003-5675





Date: Mar 8, 2022, 11:15 PM
From: lyntong <lynton48@gmail.com>
To: Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: AMNH Barosaurus Mount

Hello Mike,

Ah, yes, the Barosaurus i installation project at the AMNH.  That was indeed a while back.

The photography project was commissioned by Dorling-Kindersley in London.  The greater project involved photography of dinosaurs remains in NY and Washington, DC.
This was a “work-for-hire” assignment shot on 120 roll film and in 4x5 format.  I may have some individual frames somewhere in my deep archives but in fact all films went to DK for their exclusive use.  

I believe the creators of the skeleton were Canadians who heralded from Oakville ON, Canada.  I recall visiting their shop on a trip to my home town of Mississauga, ON.

I actually shot installation views of the barosaurus being erected over two or three days I recall, maybe intermittently over a longer time. 
The main hall at the AMNH is huge, unevenly and dimly lit, so to get clear bright shots I placed several 2400 and 5000 watt second Comet strobe packs and bare-bulb heads around the hall, syncing  them with slaves and an infrared sender on the camera. With ISO 200 film we had a consistent f11 from any vantage point in the hall. 

For Barry’s installation, I used a Hasselblad with a w.a. Distagon lens of about 40mm I recall.  The shots turned out great.  I’d bet DK still has them on hand.

The thing I recall about the building of the dinosaur is they had trouble gaining sufficient height with their mobile crane. They struggled to get the long neck reinforcing rod to slide into the body receiver.
I recall that somehow the neck ended up with a kink in it and they had to rework it.  Understand that this was a long time ago and I don’t remember the exact details well.

I wish I had photos of the work being done.  There was a lot of effort put into the project and it was most interesting to be part of it.
Unfortunately, as an career assignment photographer, my daily work concentrated (and still does) on providing imagery for my clients and there never seems to be time to photograph the ongoing production.

One thing of note.  Except for using digital cameras now, if I had the same assignment again I’d use a similar approach with synced strobe packs around hall.  Available light with high ISO recording doesn’t produce the crisp detailed results you get with old-school lighting.

Good luck with your project.
If you publish, I’d enjoy seeing it.

Cheers,

Lynton





Date: Mar 9, 2022, 11:14 AM
From: Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com>
To: lyntong <lynton48@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: AMNH Barosaurus Mount

Hi, Lynton, great to hear from you!

Your recollections of photographing this mount are fascinating. Would it be OK to quote from them in the forthcoming paper?

Do you think it might be worth my contacting DK about reproducing any of the images? I think we will have access to others taken by Peter -- is the Canadian you mention who was in charge of the mounting -- but obviously they will not have been professionally lit and photographed like yours. I don't suppose you have a contact at DK after all this time who we could start with?

I'd not come across the nickname "Barry" before (though my wife does call the skeleton that!) Do you recall whether that was a widely used name for it at that time, or is it your own coinage?

I certainly will send you a copy of the paper when it's out. But I should warn you it's the way with academic publishing that everything takes ages. If it makes it out before the end of the year I will be pleasantly surprised!

-- Mike.





Date: Mar 9, 2022, 12:22 PM
From: lyntong <lynton48@gmail.com>
To: Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: AMNH Barosaurus Mount

On Mar 9, 2022, at 6:14 AM, Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com> wrote:

> Hi, Lynton, great to hear from you!
> 
> Your recollections of photographing this mount are fascinating. Would it be OK to quote from them in the forthcoming paper?

Sure

> Do you think it might be worth my contacting DK about reproducing any of the images? I think we will have access to others taken by Peter -- is the Canadian you mention who was in charge of the mounting -- but obviously they will not have been professionally lit and photographed like yours. I don't suppose you have a contact at DK after all this time who we could start with?
 
Reach out to DK.  The worst they can say is niet.
Sorry, I have not contacts with them now.  That project was a long time ago.

> I'd not come across the nickname "Barry" before (though my wife does call the skeleton that!) Do you recall whether that was a widely used name for it at that time, or is it your own coinage?

Don’t know if Barry was in common parlance at the time.  I just recall that’s what I called it.  Maybe check with the AMNH Vertebrate Paleo folks…they’ll know

> I certainly will send you a copy of the paper when it's out. But I should warn you it's the way with academic publishing that everything takes ages. If it makes it out before the end of the year I will be pleasantly surprised!

No worries.  Sorry I just don’t have pix on hand.

It was an enjoyable time.

Good luck.





Date: Mar 9, 2022, 12:43 PM
From: Mike Taylor <sauropoda@gmail.com>
To: lyntong <lynton48@gmail.com>
Subject: Re: AMNH Barosaurus Mount

Thanks for the permission to quote.

I will reach out to DK. When I do I will likely CC you just to help them know I am legitimate, but you need not pay any attention to the thread :-)

Please don't apologise for not having pictures to hand: if someone asked me for photos of what I was doing 31 years ago, I wouldn't be confident of having them to hand!

-- Mike.





